IS :: STRING NOT NULL as an index compatible predicate (#776)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/planning-and-tuning/query-tuning/indexes.adoc

== TEXT indexes

In combination with node label and relationship type predicates, `TEXT` indexes only solve predicates operating on strings.

> That means that `TEXT` indexes are only used when it is known that the predicate evaluates to `false` or `null` for all non-string values.

Reviewer: Going forward, we need to use this formatting when referring to Cypher types

```suggestion
That means that `TEXT` indexes are only used when it is known that the predicate evaluates to `false` or `null` for all non-`STRING` values.
```

This means that a `TEXT` index is not able to solve e.g. `a.prop = b.prop`, unless a type constraint also exists on the property.

One can add xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[type predicate expressions] such as `IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL` to enforce the String type and possibly the property's existence.

> Note that `null IS {two-colons} STRING` and that indexes do not store entities with `null` properties.

Reviewer 2: Is there something missing in this sentence or is it me? I don't understand it

Author: I guess that is Mathematician slang: `null IS :: STRING` is a statement. One could add a "holds" or "is true" here, to make it less geeky:
```suggestion
Note that `null IS {two-colons} STRING` holds and that indexes do not store entities with `null` properties.
```

Reviewer 2: Ah right, yes, I see it now! I did not read `IS` as _is_, I think it's more readable if you add "holds" or "is true" at the end.

Author: Done in 31c03ee.

> One can add xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[type predicate expressions] such as `IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL` to enforce the String type and possibly the property's existence.
> Note that `null IS {two-colons} STRING` is true and that indexes do not store entities with `null` properties.
> That is why, to be able to use the index, one has to use `IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL`.
> 

Reviewer: Could the "Note that `null IS {two-colons} STRING` is true" be clarified? Particularly the "is true" part?

```suggestion
As of Neo4j 5.15, it is possible to add xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[type predicate expressions], such as `IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL`, to enforce the `STRING` type and the property's existence.
Note that `null IS {two-colons} STRING` is true and that indexes do not store entities with `null` properties.
That is why, to be able to use the index, `IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL` must be used.
```

| Substring search.
a|
[source,syntax,role="noheader"]
----
CONTAINS
----

|

> xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[String type predicates with existence check].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
xref:values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[`STRING` type predicates with existence check].
```

Such queries can be modified to provide this information.
Depending on how values that are not of type string should be treated, there are two options:

> * If rows in which the expression is not of type string should be discarded, then adding `WHERE <expression> IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL` is the right option:
> `MATCH (n:Label) WHERE $param IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL AND n.prop = $param` (See the documentation on xref::values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[Type predicate expressions] for more information on these predicates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If it is necessary to discard rows in which the expression is not of type `STRING`, then adding `WHERE <expression> IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL` is the correct option. 
For example:`MATCH (n:Label) WHERE $param IS {two-colons} STRING NOT NULL AND n.prop = $param` (See the documentation on xref::values-and-types/type-predicate.adoc[Type predicate expressions] for more information on these predicates)
```
